
@@@XXX2011 ask subjects to choose between pictorial representations of different consumer foods, normally junk foods. They independently work out how much each subject likes each of these foods, and the require the choice to be made with 3 seconds. In some cases the subjects are shown 9 or 16 different options, though it turns out they can only consider 4-6 options in 3 seconds. (The subjects are monitored using eye-trackers, and it turns out they only look at 4-6 options more than fleetingly, and usually choose one of those options.) Given the time constraints, the subjects do reasonably well at choosing something they like, though what will turn out to be relevant here is just how they get there.

For one thing, the subjects do not satisfice, in the technical sense of having some initial quality they are aiming for, and choosing as soon as they reach it. Rather, the probability that an item is chosen is an increasing function of both how good the item is, and how long the search has gone for. But note that also means that they aren't really optimising. The optimiser will use as much time as they can, then choose the best one they have seen. But, again, the subjects did not do this. The best model had the probability of an item being chosen being a continuously increasing function of the time taken.

Somewhat surprisingly, subjects had really poor memory of just where in the array items were. So if they saw a pretty good item early in the search, and then decided to come back to it late in the search, they would have to search for it again. (Remember, 'later' here means roughly 1-2 seconds later.) If they found the earlier item, they'd choose it. But if they didn't see it again, as measured by the eye tracker, they usually wouldn't select it. So it seems like it was rare, for example, to simply store in memory a spatial location of the optimal item, and select that location if no better item turns up later in the search.

This matters because it reminds us how many cognitive resources go into even a simple search. Looking at even three or four items in quick succession seems to overload our capacity to remember where those items are. The same could easily apply in a supermarket setting. Imagine, as often happens when trying to buy produce that is a little out of season, that the first thing you pick up is in a bit worse shape than you wanted. (It is under-ripe, or bruised, or something similar.) So you put it down, and start looking at the others, but, since it's out of season, you can't find any better. It isn't always obvious, at this point, where the one you started with is. If you're looking at a large display of (rock-hard) avocados, for example, finding one you had earlier dismissed isn't easy.

The point of this engaging in a thorough search, rather than using something like satisficing, might have more than cognitive costs. It certainly has cognitive costs - it takes time and effort. But the attempt to optimise might lead to a worse outcome than settling for the avocado in your hand. (Or, in this experiment, in the chocolate bar in your line of vision.)

That's not to say that no one maximises. One of the stable results of this literature is that a substantial number of people do try to maximise in something like the way utility theory suggests. But they don't always do that well out of this. For one thing, they are very bad at telling how long they are taking to make a decision. (Perhaps this is because they aren't accounting for the cost of taking time.) For another, they often end up less satisfied with their choice than people who adopt (something like a) satisficing system.

Let's come back to the result that whether a search stopped in XXX's experiment was a function both of how good the best found object was, and how long they had taken. That suggests that the average person was following something like the following rule. Choose the best thing you've found, unless the benefits of searching further outweigh the costs. As the time increases, the costs of further searching increase. You have more to remember, so the cognitive load increases, and you've used up more valuable time. So the longer you've taken, the lower the level of item quality you should be satisifed with. And that's what, on average, the experimenters found.

And that's what I think the general rule should be. You should only go in for a certain kind of investigation if the expected gains from that investigation are positive. And 'investigation' here might just involve looking at what's right in front of your eyes. So there might be cases where even though there are better options right in front of you, the optimal thing to do is simply to take something you know to be good enough. That's especially true when further investigation is likely to be costly, or to have very little return.
